VCS: Version Control System
Useful for Versioning and Sharing.
CVN,SVN are centralizeed version control system, 
GIT is a open source version control system
GITHUB/GITLAB/Bitbukcet is on top the GIT giving further functionalities like Usability, issues, commenting, Reviewing and project management.

1.install GIT
2. git init -creates an repository in the local folder
3. it will creates an .git folder which maintains the changes in your repository
4. Everything you create in this folder it will store it in objects
5. hooks prevents unintensional events like committing passwords, committing api tokens.
6. config is used to configure your credentials, secrets,TLS certificates.
7. git status: shows the tracked and modified files
8. git diff: shows the exact changes made in the files.
9. git commit -m "message": commit the changes
10. git log : shows the commits made in the repository.
11. git reset --hard 39u43243294239: to move back to previous commit.
12. git checkout/stash filename: you want to delete the changes
13. git push: used to push the changes to the remote repository.
14. git remote add: to add the remote repository location
15. git clone: Used to download the remote repository using HTTPS/SSH.
16. fork: used to copy the repository.

ssh-keygen -t rsa: creates a public and private key then copy Public key located in .ssh folder to GITHUB for Authentication

GIT branching startergies:
Feature branch: is a feature/changes that is a separating from main/master when you are sure everything is fine then you are gonna merge it to the main.
Release branch: Building the code using release branch instead of Master branch.
Master/main/trunk branch: Every branch comes from the main branch.
hostfix branch: immmediate changes required in production.
Every changes in all branches finally committed to Master branch, when everything is fine.

rm -rf folder_name: to remove a folder
git branch branchname: creates a branch
git checkout -b branchname: creates a branch and move to the branch
git merge: used to merge the changes in the main branch on top of the main branch
git cherrypick: to add the particular changes in the branch
git rebase: used to merge changes into the main branch in a linear way

git log --oneline: shows the commits in one line



